morning exercise will energize you for
the rest of the day
or at least until lunch so why not give
it a try and burn some fat at the same
time
it'll only take 10 minutes so here goes
bicycle
you don't even need to get out of bed
for this one lie on your back and raise
your knees to your chest
now straighten one leg at a 45 degree
angle above the bed
then bring that leg back while
straightening the other at the same time
repeat it until it becomes too difficult
to keep up the form
you can also level up this exercise by
doing bicycle crunches
put your hands behind your head and
while switching your legs in the air
twist your upper body and bring your
elbow to the opposite knee on its way to
your chest
continue this until you can't do it
anymore when you're done
spice it up with some criss-cross raise
both your legs straight at about a 45
degree angle
put your arms across your body or under
your lower back for support
and start moving your legs one over the
other in a crisscross
motion first get the right ankle over
the left one then switch
all without pausing russian twists
still without getting out of bed sit
with your knees bent
feet firmly planted onto the bed lean
your upper body back
at a 45 degree angle and start slowly
twisting your torso left and right
you can speed up but don't make your
moves abrupt or you can harm your
muscles and lower back
for an advanced technique sit in the
same position and raise your feet a
little off the bed
then twist your upper body with your
feet held like that and don't touch the
bed
jumping jacks okay time to get up at
last
stand straight with your feet close to
each other and your arms along your body
then in a single fluid motion jump up
spread your legs shoulder-width apart
and raise your arms over your head
without stopping jump up again
and return to the initial position keep
on jumping energetically and without
pause
until you feel your heart pumping fast
side to side hops
give yourself a little breather and
let's keep it coming still standing in
the initial position for jumping jacks
and without changing your posture
hop with both feet to the left and then
without pausing
hop back to the right keep your balance
and continue hopping to the sides until
you start panting a little
your heart should be pumping again now
and you're probably more awake than ever
unwind for half a minute and we'll get
to the real fat burners on our list
squat jumps stand straight with your
feet shoulder-width apart
raise your arms in front of you and do a
squat without lifting your heels from
the floor
touch the floor with your hands and push
yourself up with force
jumping up and raising your arms above
your head when you land
go into another squat this exercise is a
beast when it comes to burning calories
and training your calves
hips and glutes and you can up the ante
by turning squat jumps into good old
burpees
for that when you squat don't just touch
the floor with your hands
but put your weight on them and kick
back your legs to the push-up position
then in a single movement hop your legs
back to the squat position
and then jump up with burpees you'll
also engage your core
abs and even arms a pretty universal
exercise
and i've got another one for you which
is
plank nothing can be simpler yet
ironically
harder than the regular plank assume the
push-up position with your hands
propping your upper body and forming a
vertical line with your shoulders
and your lower body propped on your toes
your whole body should be straight
without any bumps or curves
so make sure your abs and glutes are
tense all the time
stay like that for 30 seconds at first
it should be enough to feel the effect
you can also do it several times during
the day as it helps tone your muscles
and gives you a healthy jolt of energy
for a short time
let's raise the stakes a little with the
elbow plank it's the same thing
only here you prop yourself on your
forearms not your hands
it might seem easier because of more
propping points but you'll feel the
tension in your chest muscles much more
accurately afterwards
and finally the hardest plank level of
all the moving plank
instead of just staying there assume the
regular plank position
and slowly shift to the elbow stance one
arm at a time
then go back to the regular stance the
same way one arm first
then the other this exercise is better
than push-ups because it doesn't tire
you so much
and you won't bulk up your muscles and
yet you'll feel your body properly tense
as you burn
that stubborn fat but if you're still
not satisfied with your plank routine
you can do plank jacks it's sort of a
lying down version of jumping jacks
stay in the regular or elbow plank
position then jump your feet to the
sides
about shoulder-width apart then without
pausing
jump them back together keep on going
until you get tired
all right you've done enough sculpting
let's do some stretching
bridges a pretty classic exercise that
isolates your glutes and hamstrings
let's start with the easier version lie
down on the floor
not on the bed unless you sleep on a
slab of rock legs bent at the knees
and feet firmly planted arms along your
body you can also put your palms beneath
your lower back for better support
now lift your hips from the floor until
they form a straight line with your
shoulders
stay like that for three seconds and go
back down repeat
until the tension is hard but still
pleasant
a more hardcore version of the bridges
will stretch your entire body
lying down on the floor with your knees
bent put your hands palmed down next to
your head
fingers facing your feet now slowly lift
your whole body from the floor with your
arms and legs
ideally your body should form an almost
perfect arch
but it can be hard if you're a beginner
so raise yourself as much as you can
until the tension in your muscles is too
great
then lie back down and repeat several
more times
the ups this one's a pleasant
distraction after so much stretching
backwards
lie on the floor well just don't get up
from it with your legs straight and your
arms extended along the floor over your
head
now slowly exhale and raise both your
legs and arms until your fingers and
toes meet halfway
above your torso make sure it's your abs
working for that
not your lower back if you feel too much
tension in it something's not right
for a more intense workout try
crisscross v-ups
it's almost the same but instead of
lifting both arms and legs at once
you only lift the opposite limbs first
your right leg and left arm
making them meet halfway then the left
leg and right arm
all without pausing lateral leg raises
time for some easy and relaxing
exercises to wind down a bit
after all you've got a long day ahead
lie on your side and prop yourself on
your forearm
legs extended and one on top of the
other now raise your straight upper leg
until you feel
tension in your inner thigh and keep it
at the highest point for a second
then lower it back down and repeat after
10 or 15 reps
turn on the other side and do it with
the other leg
superman okay this is the last one
lie in your stomach with your arms and
legs extended in a straight line
and now lift both your arms and legs
from the floor balancing on your tummy
you should feel your whole body getting
tense and don't forget to raise your
head and look forward
this way your neck will get some workout
too
alright you made it time to fly away and
save the day